README.md, before:

# Github Repository for the COP27 Datathon 

## [DRAFT] Details to be confirmed

### Introduction

The GST Climate Datathon is a call for open data and tools to support the GST ahead of COP27. Outcomes should be aimed toward making data sets interoperable, providing aggregated insights, support tools, and visualizations. Three winners from each category will have the opportunity to present their findings at the COP27 Presidency’s ‘Science and Information Day’.

There are three thematic areas of the global stocktake: mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation and support (including finance, and loss and damage). Information is being prepared for the global stocktake between now and June 2023, with technical dialogues also ongoing until June 2023. At COP28 in 2023 the outputs of the global stocktake will be considered and are expected to inform parties in updating their commitments toward the Paris Agreement.

We ask the hackers to embark on an unusual task — help us collectively build the web that expands upon and ties different datasets together.  Hackers are to examine publicly available data sets, determine their data taxonomies, make recommendations for improvements, develop tools for interoperability, fill in data gaps with modeling, record metadata, establish clear data provenance for databases, use projection analysis to determine collective action.


### Logistics

#### Timeline
##### Details forthcoming...

#### Judging Criteria
##### Details forthcoming...

#### Submission process

All submissions should be made via the GitHub repository. To submit your project, please 
1. Fork a copy of the datathon repository
2. Create a subfolder under the Submissions/<Relevant Prompt Category> folder with the format “TeamName_PromptBucket”
3. Include/Embed any documentation and/or presentations in the README file 
4.Include any relevant code snippets and/or datasets 
5. Submit a pull request to the repository 

If you have significant amounts of code (for e.g., if you have built a web tool/app) or if you have created a GitHub page for your submission, you can also make use of GitHub’s Submodule system to include a submodule to your own GitHub repository within your submission. 

#### Communications

##### Discord

Join the datathon Discord channel [here](https://discord.com/invite/a9ZEFFKz)!

##### Team-matching
##### Details forthcoming...

### Resources

#### Compiled Datasets

** Crowd-sourced and compiled datasets**
Crowd-sourced datasets via our [google form[(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfP0migRTasiXnfIiuCd8SZRU0hIthBRExwyfFOTu4JYpixNA/viewform?pli=1) are available on this [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Ore_Wg8VyqRqQppG_I6z2Q3BKXnrfEut?usp=sharing)

**DDL-OEF-CAD 2.0 Data model**

The DDL-OEF-CAD 2.0 Data model is an attempt led by DDL and OEF (and supported by the CAD 2.0 community) to create a data model that would allow climate data from disparate sources to be harmonized for use in a Digitally-enabled Independent Global Stocktake. 

Participants are encouraged to transform their data into the format of the data model (accessible [here](https://github.com/datadrivenenvirolab/cop27_datathon/blob/main/Resources/Data%20model/Data%20model.md)) when submitting any datasets, and to leave any comments they have on the data model on this version [here](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_l495VDw=/?moveToWidget=3458764532801591939&cot=10). 

#### Tutorials and background info
**R**

[Intro to R](http://www.r-tutor.com/r-introduction)

[Base R Cheatsheet](https://iqss.github.io/dss-workshops/R/Rintro/base-r-cheat-sheet.pdf)

[Full List of R Cheatsheet](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/cheatsheets/)

[Spatial Data Programming with R](http://132.72.155.230:3838/r/)

[Map Spatial Data in R](https://geocompr.robinlovelace.net/adv-map.html)

[R Graph Gallery](https://r-graph-gallery.com/)

[R Shiny Gallery](https://shiny.rstudio.com/gallery/)

**Python**

[Intro to Python – Pandas](https://www.learndatasci.com/tutorials/python-pandas-tutorial-complete-introduction-for-beginners/)

[Python for Data Science Cheatsheet](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.datacamp.com/blog_assets/PythonForDataScience.pdf)

[Intro to Geopandas](https://automating-gis-processes.github.io/CSC18/lessons/L2/geopandas-basics.html)

[Work with Rasters](https://kodu.ut.ee/~kmoch/geopython2020/L5/raster.html)

[Python graph gallery](https://www.python-graph-gallery.com/)

**GitHub** 
 
[GitHub basics](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/hello-world)

[Quick start to GitHub pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)  

[Working with submodules](https://github.blog/2016-02-01-working-with-submodules/)


### FAQs

Commit message:

Update link to data model and team-matching discord

README.md, after:

# Github Repository for the COP27 Datathon 

## [DRAFT] Details to be confirmed

### Introduction

The GST Climate Datathon is a call for open data and tools to support the GST ahead of COP27. Outcomes should be aimed toward making data sets interoperable, providing aggregated insights, support tools, and visualizations. Three winners from each category will have the opportunity to present their findings at the COP27 Presidency’s ‘Science and Information Day’.

There are three thematic areas of the global stocktake: mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation and support (including finance, and loss and damage). Information is being prepared for the global stocktake between now and June 2023, with technical dialogues also ongoing until June 2023. At COP28 in 2023 the outputs of the global stocktake will be considered and are expected to inform parties in updating their commitments toward the Paris Agreement.

We ask the hackers to embark on an unusual task — help us collectively build the web that expands upon and ties different datasets together.  Hackers are to examine publicly available data sets, determine their data taxonomies, make recommendations for improvements, develop tools for interoperability, fill in data gaps with modeling, record metadata, establish clear data provenance for databases, use projection analysis to determine collective action.


### Logistics

#### Timeline
##### Details forthcoming...

#### Judging Criteria
##### Details forthcoming...

#### Submission process

All submissions should be made via the GitHub repository. To submit your project, please 
1. Fork a copy of the datathon repository
2. Create a subfolder under the Submissions/<Relevant Prompt Category> folder with the format “TeamName_PromptBucket”
3. Include/Embed any documentation and/or presentations in the README file 
4.Include any relevant code snippets and/or datasets 
5. Submit a pull request to the repository 

If you have significant amounts of code (for e.g., if you have built a web tool/app) or if you have created a GitHub page for your submission, you can also make use of GitHub’s Submodule system to include a submodule to your own GitHub repository within your submission. 

#### Communications

##### Discord

Join the datathon Discord channel [here](https://discord.com/invite/a9ZEFFKz)!

##### Team-matching
If you are participating in the datathon individually, check out the Discord [Team Matching channel](https://discord.com/channels/1018884491000950804/1020361121435234375) to find your dream team!

### Resources

#### Compiled Datasets

** Crowd-sourced and compiled datasets**
Crowd-sourced datasets via our [google form[(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfP0migRTasiXnfIiuCd8SZRU0hIthBRExwyfFOTu4JYpixNA/viewform?pli=1) are available on this [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Ore_Wg8VyqRqQppG_I6z2Q3BKXnrfEut?usp=sharing)

**DDL-OEF-CAD 2.0 Data model**

The DDL-OEF-CAD 2.0 Data model is an attempt led by DDL and OEF (and supported by the CAD 2.0 community) to create a data model that would allow climate data from disparate sources to be harmonized for use in a Digitally-enabled Independent Global Stocktake. 

Participants are encouraged to transform their data into the format of the data model (accessible [here](https://github.com/Open-Earth-Foundation/OpenClimate-Schema) when submitting any datasets, and to leave any comments they have on the data model on this version [here](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_l495VDw=/?moveToWidget=3458764532801591939&cot=10). 

#### Tutorials and background info
**R**

[Intro to R](http://www.r-tutor.com/r-introduction)

[Base R Cheatsheet](https://iqss.github.io/dss-workshops/R/Rintro/base-r-cheat-sheet.pdf)

[Full List of R Cheatsheet](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/cheatsheets/)

[Spatial Data Programming with R](http://132.72.155.230:3838/r/)

[Map Spatial Data in R](https://geocompr.robinlovelace.net/adv-map.html)

[R Graph Gallery](https://r-graph-gallery.com/)

[R Shiny Gallery](https://shiny.rstudio.com/gallery/)

**Python**

[Intro to Python – Pandas](https://www.learndatasci.com/tutorials/python-pandas-tutorial-complete-introduction-for-beginners/)

[Python for Data Science Cheatsheet](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.datacamp.com/blog_assets/PythonForDataScience.pdf)

[Intro to Geopandas](https://automating-gis-processes.github.io/CSC18/lessons/L2/geopandas-basics.html)

[Work with Rasters](https://kodu.ut.ee/~kmoch/geopython2020/L5/raster.html)

[Python graph gallery](https://www.python-graph-gallery.com/)

**GitHub** 
 
[GitHub basics](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/hello-world)

[Quick start to GitHub pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)  

[Working with submodules](https://github.blog/2016-02-01-working-with-submodules/)


### FAQs
